v7.1.2: add release notes (#15137)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-7.1.2.md

    - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Improvements> TiKV - Add the backoff mechanism for the PD client in the process of connection retries, which gradually increases retry intervals during error retries to reduce PD pressure [#15428](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15428) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - (dup): release-6.5.4.md > Improvements> TiKV - Avoid holding mutex when writing Titan manifest files to prevent affecting other threads [#15351](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15351) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Improvements> TiKV - Optimize memory usage of Resolver to prevent OOM [#15458](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15458) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

+ PD  <!--tw@Oreoxmt--2 条-->

    - Optimize the backoff mechanism in the PD caller to reduce the frequency of RPC requests when a call fails [#6556](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6556) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

>     - (dup): release-7.3.0.md > Improvements> PD - Reduce the memory consumption of `GetRegions` requests [#6835](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6835) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Introduce the cancel mechanism for the `GetRegions` interface to release CPU and memory in time when the caller is disconnected [#6835](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6835) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
```

    + TiCDC  <!--tw@qiancai--2 条-->

        - 优化 TiCDC 部分监控项和报警项 [#9047](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9047)
        - 优化 Kafka 场景下，当消息过大时只发送 handle key 避免同步任务失败的问题 [#9680](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9680)
        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC - Optimize the execution logic of replicating the `ADD INDEX` DDL operations to avoid blocking subsequent DML statements [#9644](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9644) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - (dup): release-6.5.4.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC - Refine the status message when TiCDC retries after a failure [#9483](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9483) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - (dup): release-6.5.4.md > Improvements> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - Support strict optimistic mode for incompatible DDL statements [#9112](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9112) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

>     + TiDB Lightning

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    + TiDB Lightning <!--tw@hfxsd--1 条-->
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

        - Change the default value of `checksum-via-sql` to `false` to improve the performance of import tasks [#45368](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45368) [#45094](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45094) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.5.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that network interruption between PD and TiKV might cause PITR to get stuck [#15279](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15279) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
    - (dup): release-6.5.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that Region Merge might be blocked after executing `FLASHBACK` [#15258](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15258) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - (dup): release-6.5.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue of heartbeat storms by reducing the number of store heartbeat retries [#15184](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15184) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that Online Unsafe Recovery does not abort on timeout [#15346](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15346) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - (dup): release-6.5.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that encryption might cause data corruption during partial write [#15080](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15080) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)

>     - 修复由于 Region 的元数据不正确造成 TiKV panic 的问题 [#13311](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13311)@[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk))
>     - 使用请求中的deadline字段作为coprocessor请求的超时时间 [#15565](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15565) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
>     - 修复一个可能在移动peer时使得follower read性能变差的缺陷. [#15468](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15468) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiKV panics due to corrupted metadata [#13311](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13311) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
    - Fix the issue that requests of the TiDB Lightning checksum coprocessor time out when there is online workload [#15565](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15565) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) 
    - Fix the issue that moving a peer might cause the performance of the follower read to deteriorate [#15468](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15468) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

    - Fix the issue that hot Regions might not be scheduled in the v2 scheduler algorithm [#6645](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6645) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Fix the issue that the TLS handshake might cause high CPU usage in an empty cluster [#6913](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6913) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - Fix the issue that injection errors between PD nodes might cause PD panic [#6858](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6858) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Fix the issue that store information synchronization might cause the PD leader to exit and get stuck [#6918](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6918) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Fix the issue that the Region information is not updated after Flashback [#6912](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6912) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Fix the issue that PD might panic during exiting [#7053](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7053) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Fix the issue that the context timeout might cause the `lease timeout` error [#6926](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6926) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

>     - Fix the issue that peers are not properly scattered by group, which might cause uneven distribution of leader [#6962](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6962) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that peers are not properly scattered by group, which might cause uneven distribution of leaders [#6962](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6962) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
```

    - Fix the issue that DDL might not guarantee atomicity after enabling resource control [#45050](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45050) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - (dup): release-7.3.0.md > Bug fixes> PD - Fix the issue that unhealthy peers cannot be removed when rule checker selects peers [#6559](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6559) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - (dup): release-7.3.0.md > Bug fixes> PD - Fix the issue that when etcd is already started but the client has not yet connected to it, calling the client might cause PD to panic [#6860](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6860) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> PD - Fix the issue that RU consumption less than 0 causes PD to crash [#6973](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6973) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)
    - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> PD - Fix the issue that the client-go regularly updating `min-resolved-ts` might cause PD OOM when the cluster is large [#46664](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46664) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

+ TiFlash <!--tw@hfxsd--1 条-->

>     - 修复内存使用跟踪不准确的问题 [#8128](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8128) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that memory tracker is not accurate when read pool is enabled [#8128](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8128) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
```

        - (dup): release-6.5.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the potential error in fine-grained backup phase in RawKV mode [#37085](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37085) @[pingyu](https://github.com/pingyu)
        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the issue that recovering meta-kv using PITR might cause errors [#46578](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46578) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the errors in BR integration test cases [#45561](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46561) @[purelind](https://github.com/purelind)
        - (dup): release-6.5.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the issue of restore failures by increasing the default values of the global parameters `TableColumnCountLimit` and `IndexLimit` used by BR to their maximum values [#45793](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45793) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

>         - 修复 cli 扫描恢复后数据卡住的问题 [#45476](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45476) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
>         - 修复 PiTR 可能跳过恢复 create index ddl 问题[#47482](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47482) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
>         - 修复1分钟之内多次做 PiTR 可能丢失数据问题[#15483](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15483) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - 修复 CLI 扫描恢复后数据卡住的问题 [#45476](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45476) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - 修复 PITR 可能跳过恢复 `CREATE INDEX` DDL 的问题 [#47482](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47482) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - 修复 1 分钟之内多次执行 PITR 可能丢失数据问题 [#15483](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15483) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

    + TiCDC <!--tw@hfxsd--4 条-->

>         - 修复处于异常状态的同步任务阻塞上游 GC 的问题 [#9543](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9543)
>         - 修复同步到对象存储时，在某些特殊场景下可能导致数据不一致的问题[#9592](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9592)
>         - 修复开启 redo 时，在某些特殊场景下可能导致 changefeed 失败的问题 [#9769](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9769)
>         - 修复在某些特殊的操作系统下，获取内存信息不对可能会导致 TiCDC 节点 OOM 的问题  [#9762](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9762)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that a replication task in an abnormal state blocks upstream GC [#9543](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9543) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Fix the issue that replicating data to an object store might cause data inconsistency [#9592](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9592) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Fix the issue that enabling `redo-resolved-ts` might cause changefeed to fail [#9769](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9769) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Fix the issue that fetching wrong memory information might cause OOM issues in some operating systems [#9762](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9762) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
```

        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - Fix the DM validator deadlock issue and enhance retries [#9257](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9257) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - Fix the issue that DM skips all DMLs when resuming a task in optimistic mode [#9588](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9588) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - Fix the issue that DM cannot properly track upstream table schemas when skipping online DDLs [#9587](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9587) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - Fix the issue that DM skips partition DDLs in optimistic mode [#9788](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9788) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

    + TiDB Lightning <!--tw@hfxsd--2 条-->

>         - 将 checksum-via-sql 默认值设置为 false，提升导入任务执行性能。[#45368](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45368) , [#45094](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45094) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
>         - 当导入表设置了 AUTO_ID_CACHE=1 会导致分配错误的 rowid [#46100](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46100) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that when importing a table with `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1`, a wrong `row_id` is assigned [#46100](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46100) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
```

>     + TiDB Lightning <!--tw@hfxsd--2 条-->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    + TiDB Lightning <!--tw@hfxsd--1 条-->
```

---
title: TiDB 7.1.2 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.1.2.
---

# TiDB 7.1.2 Release Notes

Release date: October xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.1.2

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.1.2#version-list)

## Compatibility changes <!--tw@qiancai--3 条-->

> - Introduces the [`tidb_opt_enable_hash_join`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-new-in-v712) system variable to control whether the optimizer selects hash joins for tables [#46695](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46695) @[coderplay](https://github.com/coderplay)
> - Disable periodic compaction of RocksDB by default, so that the default behavior of TiKV RocksDB is now consistent with that in versions before v6.5.0. This change prevents potential performance impact caused by a significant number of compactions after upgrading. In addition, TiKV introduces two new configuration items [`rocksdb.[defaultcf|writecf|lockcf].periodic-compaction-seconds`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-compaction-seconds-new-in-v712) and [`rocksdb.[defaultcf|writecf|lockcf].ttl`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#ttl-new-in-v712), enabling you to manually configure periodic compaction of RocksDB [#15355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15355) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) [#15355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15355) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
> - TiCDC introduces the [`sink.csv.binary-encoding-method`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md#changefeed-configuration-parameters) configuration item to control the encoding method of binary data, which can be `'base64'` or `'hex'`. The default value is `'base64'` [#9373](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9373) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
> - TiCDC introduces the [`large-message-handle-option`](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#handle-messages-that-exceed-the-kafka-topic-limit) configuration item. It is empty by default, which means that the changefeed fails when the message size exceeds the limit of Kafka topic. When this configuration is set to `"handle-key-only"`, if the message exceeds the size limit, only the handle key will be sent to reduce the message size; if the reduced message still exceeds the limit, then the changefeed fails. [#9680](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9680) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Author: ```suggestion
- Introduces the [`tidb_opt_enable_hash_join`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1/system-variables#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-new-in-v712) system variable to control whether the optimizer selects hash joins for tables [#46695](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46695) @[coderplay](https://github.com/coderplay)
- Disable periodic compaction of RocksDB by default, so that the default behavior of TiKV RocksDB is now consistent with that in versions before v6.5.0. This change prevents potential performance impact caused by a significant number of compactions after upgrading. In addition, TiKV introduces two new configuration items [`rocksdb.[defaultcf|writecf|lockcf].periodic-compaction-seconds`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1//tikv-configuration-file#periodic-compaction-seconds-new-in-v712) and [`rocksdb.[defaultcf|writecf|lockcf].ttl`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1//tikv-configuration-file#ttl-new-in-v712), enabling you to manually configure periodic compaction of RocksDB [#15355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15355) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) [#15355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15355) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
- TiCDC introduces the [`sink.csv.binary-encoding-method`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md#changefeed-configuration-parameters) configuration item to control the encoding method of binary data, which can be `'base64'` or `'hex'`. The default value is `'base64'` [#9373](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9373) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
- TiCDC introduces the [`large-message-handle-option`](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#handle-messages-that-exceed-the-kafka-topic-limit) configuration item. It is empty by default, which means that the changefeed fails when the message size exceeds the limit of the Kafka topic. When this configuration is set to `"handle-key-only"`, if the message exceeds the size limit, only the handle key will be sent to reduce the message size; if the reduced message still exceeds the limit, then the changefeed fails [#9680](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9680) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

> ## Compatibility changes <!--tw@qiancai--3 条-->
> 
> - Introduces the [`tidb_opt_enable_hash_join`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-new-in-v712) system variable to control whether the optimizer selects hash joins for tables [#46695](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46695) @[coderplay](https://github.com/coderplay)
> - Disable periodic compaction of RocksDB by default, so that the default behavior of TiKV RocksDB is now consistent with that in versions before v6.5.0. This change prevents potential performance impact caused by a significant number of compactions after upgrading. In addition, TiKV introduces two new configuration items [`rocksdb.[defaultcf|writecf|lockcf].periodic-compaction-seconds`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-compaction-seconds-new-in-v712) and [`rocksdb.[defaultcf|writecf|lockcf].ttl`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#ttl-new-in-v712), enabling you to manually configure periodic compaction of RocksDB [#15355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15355) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) [#15355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15355) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
> - TiCDC introduces the [`sink.csv.binary-encoding-method`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md#changefeed-configuration-parameters) configuration item to control the encoding method of binary data, which can be `'base64'` or `'hex'`. The default value is `'base64'` [#9373](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9373) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
> - TiCDC introduces the [`large-message-handle-option`](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#handle-messages-that-exceed-the-kafka-topic-limit) configuration item. It is empty by default, which means that the changefeed fails when the message size exceeds the limit of Kafka topic. When this configuration is set to `"handle-key-only"`, if the message exceeds the size limit, only the handle key will be sent to reduce the message size; if the reduced message still exceeds the limit, then the changefeed fails. [#9680](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9680) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Author: ```suggestion
## Compatibility changes <!--tw@qiancai--5 条-->

- Introduces the [`tidb_opt_enable_hash_join`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1/system-variables#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-new-in-v712) system variable to control whether the optimizer selects hash joins for tables [#46695](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46695) @[coderplay](https://github.com/coderplay)
- Disable periodic compaction of RocksDB by default, so that the default behavior of TiKV RocksDB is now consistent with that in versions before v6.5.0. This change prevents potential performance impact caused by a significant number of compactions after upgrading. In addition, TiKV introduces two new configuration items [`rocksdb.[defaultcf|writecf|lockcf].periodic-compaction-seconds`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1/tikv-configuration-file#periodic-compaction-seconds-new-in-v712) and [`rocksdb.[defaultcf|writecf|lockcf].ttl`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1/tikv-configuration-file#ttl-new-in-v712), enabling you to manually configure periodic compaction of RocksDB [#15355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15355) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) [#15355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15355) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
- TiCDC introduces the [`large-message-handle-option`](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#handle-messages-that-exceed-the-kafka-topic-limit) configuration item. It is empty by default, which means that the changefeed fails when the message size exceeds the limit of the Kafka topic. When this configuration is set to `"handle-key-only"`, if the message exceeds the size limit, only the handle key will be sent to reduce the message size; if the reduced message still exceeds the limit, then the changefeed fails [#9680](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9680) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

> - TiCDC introduces the [`large-message-handle-option`](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#handle-messages-that-exceed-the-kafka-topic-limit) configuration item. It is empty by default, which means that the changefeed fails when the message size exceeds the limit of the Kafka topic. When this configuration is set to `"handle-key-only"`, if the message exceeds the size limit, only the handle key will be sent to reduce the message size; if the reduced message still exceeds the limit, then the changefeed fails [#9680](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9680) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Author: The content in L19 is copied from https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.3/release-7.3.0#configuration-file-parameters

## Improvements

+ TiDB <!--tw@ran-huang--2 条-->

>     - (dup): release-6.5.5.md > 改进提升> TiDB - 新增部分优化器提示，包括 [`NO_MERGE_JOIN()`](/optimizer-hints.md#no_merge_joint1_name--tl_name-)、[`NO_INDEX_JOIN()`](/optimizer-hints.md#no_index_joint1_name--tl_name-)、[`NO_INDEX_MERGE_JOIN()`](/optimizer-hints.md#no_index_merge_joint1_name--tl_name-)、[`NO_HASH_JOIN()`](/optimizer-hints.md#no_hash_joint1_name--tl_name-)、[`NO_INDEX_HASH_JOIN()`](/optimizer-hints.md#no_index_hash_joint1_name--tl_name-) [#45520](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45520) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

Author: ```suggestion
    - (dup): release-6.5.5.md > Improvements> TiDB     - Add new optimizer hints, including [`NO_MERGE_JOIN()`](/optimizer-hints.md#no_merge_joint1_name--tl_name-), [`NO_INDEX_JOIN()`](/optimizer-hints.md#no_index_joint1_name--tl_name-), [`NO_INDEX_MERGE_JOIN()`](/optimizer-hints.md#no_index_merge_joint1_name--tl_name-), [`NO_HASH_JOIN()`](/optimizer-hints.md#no_hash_joint1_name--tl_name-), and [`NO_INDEX_HASH_JOIN()`](/optimizer-hints.md#no_index_hash_joint1_name--tl_name-) [#45520](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45520) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

```

    - (dup): release-6.5.4.md > Improvements> TiKV - Avoid holding mutex when writing Titan manifest files to prevent affecting other threads [#15351](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15351) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Improvements> TiKV - Optimize memory usage of Resolver to prevent OOM [#15458](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15458) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

+ PD  <!--tw@Oreoxmt--2 条-->

    - Optimize the backoff mechanism in the PD caller to reduce the frequency of RPC requests when a call fails [#6556](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6556) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Introduce the cancel mechanism for the `GetRegions` interface to release CPU and memory in time when the caller is disconnected [#6835](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6835) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

+ TiFlash  <!--tw@qiancai--1 条-->

>     - 添加索引数据内存使用的监控 [#8050](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8050) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Add monitoring metrics for the memory usage of index data in Grafana [#8050](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8050) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)
```

    - 修复使用正确的 timezone 信息对于时间字段进行编码。[#46044](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46033)@[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - 自动为快速加索引创建 temp-dir [#45456](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45456)@[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - 去除暂停所有系统 DDL 任务功能，防止升级 block [#46288](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46228)@[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
    - 使用 Table ID 为关联分区表各分区为一组，使得 PD 整体进行 split and scatter 分区表。 [#46135](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46135)@[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
    - 修复 TiDB 重启 DDL 卡住问题 [#46751](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46751)@[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - 禁止非整型聚簇索引进行 split table [#47350](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47350)@[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - 修复一个 DDL 可能由于 MDL 处理不正确导致永久阻塞问题 [#46920](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46920)@[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - 修复 rename table 导致表中出现重复列 [#47064](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47064)@[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)

>     - Fix the panic issue of `batch-client` in `client-go` [#47691](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47691) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the panic issue of `batch-client` in `client-go` [#47691](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47691) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - Fix the issue that statistics collection on partitioned tables cannot be killed in time when its memory usage exceeds memory limits [#45706] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45706) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that query results are inaccurate when queries contain `UNHEX` conditions [#45378](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45378) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that the ' Can't find column`  error is returned when `GROUP_CONCAT` is used in a query. [#41957](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41957) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash - Fix the issue that TiFlash data is inconsistent due to invalid range keys of a region [#7762](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7762) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
    - (dup): release-6.5.4.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash - Fix the issue that queries fail after `fsp` is changed for `DATETIME`, `TIMESTAMP`, or `TIME` data type [#7809](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7809) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - (dup): release-7.3.0.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash - Fix the issue that when there are multiple HashAgg operators within the same MPP task, the compilation of the MPP task might take an excessively long time, severely affecting query performance [#7810](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7810) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@hfxsd--3 条-->

        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the issue that recovering implicit primary keys using PITR might cause conflicts [#46520](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46520) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

>         - (dup): release-6.5.5.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复 GCS 上 PITR 恢复失败的问题 [#47022](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47022) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Author: 这一条在 v6.5.5 的英文 release notes 里漏掉了

>         - (dup): release-6.5.5.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复 GCS 上 PITR 恢复失败的问题 [#47022](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47022) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Author: ```suggestion
        - (dup): release-6.5.5.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the issues that PITR fails to recover data on GCS [#47022](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47022) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning - Fix the issue that checksum still reports errors when `checksum = "optional"` [#45382](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45382) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001)
        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning - Fix the issue that data import fails when the PD cluster address changes [#43436](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43436) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)
        - (dup): release-6.5.5.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning fails to start when PD topology is changed [#46688](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46688) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - (dup): release-6.5.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning - Fix the issue that route might panic when importing CSV data [#43284](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43284) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001)

    + TiDB Binlog

>         - (dup): release-4.0.16.md > Bug 修复> Tools> TiDB Binlog - 修复传输事务超过 1 GB 时 Drainer 会退出的问题 [#28659](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28659)

Author: ```suggestion
        - (dup): release-4.0.16.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Binlog - Fix the bug that Drainer exits when transporting a transaction greater than 1 GB [#28659](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28659)
```

---
title: TiDB 7.1.2 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.1.2.
---

# TiDB 7.1.2 Release Notes

> Release date: October xx, 2023

Author: ```suggestion
Release date: October 25, 2023
```

    - Fix the issue that the query might report an error when querying partitioned tables in static pruning mode and the execution plan contains `IndexLookUp` [#45757](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45757) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that inserting data into a partitioned table might fail after exchanging partitions between the partition table and a table with placement policies  [#45791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45791) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - Fix the issue of encoding time fields with incorrect timezone information [#46044](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46033) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that DDL statements that fast add indexes would get stuck when the `tmp` directory does not exist [#45456](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45456) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that upgrading multiple TiDB instances simultaneously might block the upgrade process [#46288](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46228) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)

>     - Fix the issue of uneven Region scattering caused by incorrect parameters used in splitting Regions [#46135](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46135)@[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of uneven Region scattering caused by incorrect parameters used in splitting Regions [#46135](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46135) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
```

        - Fix the issue that TiCDC incorrectly changes the `UPDATE` operation to `INSERT` when using the CSV format [#9658](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9658) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue that a replication error occurs when multiple tables are renamed in the same DDL statement on the upstream [#9476](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9476) [#9488](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9488) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Fix the issue that the replication task fails due to short retry intervals when synchronizing to Kafka [#9504](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9504) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue that replication write conflicts might occur when the unique keys for multiple rows are modified in one transaction on the upstream [#9430](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9430) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)

>         - Fix the issue that the replication task might get stuck when the downstream encounters a short-term failure [#9542](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9542) [#9272](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9272)[#9582](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9582) [#9592](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9592) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the replication task might get stuck when the downstream encounters a short-term failure [#9542](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9542) [#9272](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9272) [#9582](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9582) [#9592](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9592) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
```

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Fix the issue that when importing a table with `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1`, a wrong `row_id` is assigned [#46100](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46100) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
        - Fix the issue that the data type is wrong when saving `NEXT_GLOBAL_ROW_ID` [#45427](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45427) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001)
        - Fix the issue that checksum still reports errors when `checksum = "optional"` [#45382](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45382) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001)
        - Fix the issue that data import fails when the PD cluster address changes [#43436](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43436) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)
        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning fails to start when PD topology is changed [#46688](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46688) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that route might panic when importing CSV data [#43284](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43284) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001)

    + TiDB Binlog

>         - Fix the issue that Drainer exits when transporting a transaction greater than 1 GB [#28659](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28659)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that Drainer exits when transporting a transaction greater than 1 GB [#28659](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28659) @[jackysp](https://github.com/jackysp)
```

---
title: TiDB 7.1.2 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.1.2.
---

# TiDB 7.1.2 Release Notes

Release date: October xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.1.2

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.1.2#version-list)

> ## Compatibility changes <!--tw@qiancai--5 条-->

Author: ```suggestion
## Compatibility changes <!--tw@qiancai--4 条-->
```

> - Introduces the [`tidb_opt_enable_hash_join`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1/system-variables#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-new-in-v712) system variable to control whether the optimizer selects hash joins for tables [#46695](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46695) @[coderplay](https://github.com/coderplay)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Introduce the [`tidb_opt_enable_hash_join`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1/system-variables#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-new-in-v712) system variable to control whether the optimizer selects hash joins for tables [#46695](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46695) @[coderplay](https://github.com/coderplay)
```

> - Disable periodic compaction of RocksDB by default, so that the default behavior of TiKV RocksDB is now consistent with that in versions before v6.5.0. This change prevents potential performance impact caused by a significant number of compactions after upgrading. In addition, TiKV introduces two new configuration items [`rocksdb.[defaultcf|writecf|lockcf].periodic-compaction-seconds`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1/tikv-configuration-file#periodic-compaction-seconds-new-in-v712) and [`rocksdb.[defaultcf|writecf|lockcf].ttl`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1/tikv-configuration-file#ttl-new-in-v712), enabling you to manually configure periodic compaction of RocksDB [#15355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15355) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) [#15355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15355) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Disable periodic compaction of RocksDB by default, so that the default behavior of TiKV RocksDB is now consistent with that in versions before v6.5.0. This change prevents potential performance impact caused by a significant number of compactions after upgrading. In addition, TiKV introduces two new configuration items [`rocksdb.[defaultcf|writecf|lockcf].periodic-compaction-seconds`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1/tikv-configuration-file#periodic-compaction-seconds-new-in-v712) and [`rocksdb.[defaultcf|writecf|lockcf].ttl`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1/tikv-configuration-file#ttl-new-in-v712), enabling you to manually configure periodic compaction of RocksDB [#15355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15355) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
```

> - TiCDC introduces the [`sink.csv.binary-encoding-method`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md#changefeed-configuration-parameters) configuration item to control the encoding method of binary data, which can be `'base64'` or `'hex'`. The default value is `'base64'` [#9373](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9373) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- TiCDC introduces the [`sink.csv.binary-encoding-method`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md#changefeed-configuration-parameters) configuration item to control the encoding method of binary data in the CSV protocol. The default value is `'base64'` [#9373](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9373) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
```

## Improvements

+ TiDB <!--tw@ran-huang--2 条-->

    - (dup): release-6.5.5.md > Improvements> TiDB - Add new optimizer hints, including [`NO_MERGE_JOIN()`](/optimizer-hints.md#no_merge_joint1_name--tl_name-), [`NO_INDEX_JOIN()`](/optimizer-hints.md#no_index_joint1_name--tl_name-), [`NO_INDEX_MERGE_JOIN()`](/optimizer-hints.md#no_index_merge_joint1_name--tl_name-), [`NO_HASH_JOIN()`](/optimizer-hints.md#no_hash_joint1_name--tl_name-), and [`NO_INDEX_HASH_JOIN()`](/optimizer-hints.md#no_index_hash_joint1_name--tl_name-) [#45520](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45520) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.4.md > Improvements> TiKV - Avoid holding mutex when writing Titan manifest files to prevent affecting other threads [#15351](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15351) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Improvements> TiKV - Optimize memory usage of Resolver to prevent OOM [#15458](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15458) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

+ PD  <!--tw@Oreoxmt--2 条-->

    - Optimize the backoff mechanism in the PD caller to reduce the frequency of RPC requests when a call fails [#6556](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6556) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Introduce the cancel mechanism for the `GetRegions` interface to release CPU and memory in time when the caller is disconnected [#6835](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6835) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

+ TiFlash  <!--tw@qiancai--1 条-->

>     - Add monitoring metrics for the memory usage of index data on Grafana [#8050](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8050) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Add monitoring metrics for the memory usage of index data in Grafana [#8050](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8050) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)
```

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Enhance support for connection reuse of log backup and PITR restore tasks by setting `MaxIdleConns` and `MaxIdleConnsPerHost` parameters in the HTTP client [#46011](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46011) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Reduce the CPU overhead of log backup `resolve lock` [#40759](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40759) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Add a new restore parameter `WaitTiflashReady`. When this parameter is enabled, the restore operation will be completed after TiFlash replicas are successfully replicated [#43828](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43828) [#46302](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46302) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

    + TiCDC  <!--tw@qiancai--2 条-->

        - Optimize several TiCDC monitoring metrics and alarm rules [#9047](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9047) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

>         - Kafka Sink supports [sending only handle key data](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#handle-messages-that-exceed-the-kafka-topic-limit) when a message is too large, reducing the size of the message [#9680](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9680) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Kafka Sink supports [sending only handle key data](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#handle-messages-that-exceed-the-kafka-topic-limit) when a message is too large, avoiding changefeed failure caused by excessive message size [#9680](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9680) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

    - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that the `tmp-storage-quota` configuration does not take effect [#45161](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45161) [#26806](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26806) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that the TiDB parser remains in a state and causes parsing failure [#45898](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45898) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that when Aggregation is pushed down through Union in MPP execution plans, the results are incorrect [#45850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45850) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that TiDB recovers slowly after a panic when `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` is set [#46454](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46454) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

>     - 修复 Sort 算子在 Spill 时可能发生的 Crash [#47538](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47538) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
>     - 修复使用 BR 恢复 `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` 的非聚簇索引表时发生重复主键的问题 [#46093](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46093) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
>     - 修复在静态分区裁剪模式下查询分区表且查询计划中带有 `IndexLookUp` 时可能报错的问题 [#45757](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45757) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the Sort operator might cause TiDB to crash during the spill process [#47538](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47538) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - Fix the issue of duplicate primary keys when using BR to restore non-clustered index tables with `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` [#46093](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46093) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue that the query might report an error when querying partitioned tables in static partition pruning mode and the execution plan contains `IndexLookUp` [#45757](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45757) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

>     - Fix the issue that the query might report an error when querying partitioned tables in static partition pruning mode and the execution plan contains `IndexLookUp` [#45757](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45757) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the query might report an error when querying partitioned tables in static pruning mode and the execution plan contains `IndexLookUp` [#45757](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45757) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

>     - 修复在分区表与有 Placement Policy 的表进行分区交换后再往分区表中插入数据可能失败的问题 [#45791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45791) @[mjonss ](https://github.com/mjonss)
>     - 修复使用正确的 timezone 信息对于时间字段进行编码。[#46044](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46033)@[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - 自动为快速加索引创建 temp-dir [#45456](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45456)@[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - 去除暂停所有系统 DDL 任务功能，防止升级 block [#46288](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46228)@[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that inserting data into a partitioned table might fail after exchanging partitions between the partition table and a table with placement policies  [#45791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45791) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - Fix the issue of encoding time fields with incorrect timezone information [#46044](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46033) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that DDL statements that fast add indexes would get stuck when `temp-dir` does not exist [#45456](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45456) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that upgrading multiple TiDB instances simultaneously might block the upgrade process [#46288](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46228) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
```

>     - Fix the issue that DDL statements that fast add indexes would get stuck when `temp-dir` does not exist [#45456](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45456) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that DDL statements that fast add indexes would get stuck when the `tmp` directory does not exist [#45456](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45456) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
```

>     - 使用 Table ID 为关联分区表各分区为一组，使得 PD 整体进行 split and scatter 分区表。 [#46135](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46135)@[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of uneven Region scattering caused by incorrect parameters used in splitting Regions [#46135](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46135)@[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
```

>     - 修复 TiDB 重启 DDL 卡住问题 [#46751](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46751)@[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
>     - 禁止非整型聚簇索引进行 split table [#47350](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47350)@[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - 修复一个 DDL 可能由于 MDL 处理不正确导致永久阻塞问题 [#46920](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46920)@[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
>     - 修复 rename table 导致表中出现重复列 [#47064](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47064)@[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that DDL operations might get stuck after TiDB is restarted [#46751](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46751) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - Prohibit split table operations on non-integer clustered indexes [#47350](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47350) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that DDL operations get permanently blocked due to incorrect MDL handling [#46920](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46920) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - Fix the issue of duplicate columns in a table caused by `RENAME TABLE` operations [#47064](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47064)@[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
```

>     - Fix the issue that DDL operations get permanently blocked due to incorrect MDL handling [#46920](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46920) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that DDL operations might get permanently blocked due to incorrect MDL handling [#46920](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46920) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.5.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that network interruption between PD and TiKV might cause PITR to get stuck [#15279](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15279) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
    - (dup): release-6.5.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that Region Merge might be blocked after executing `FLASHBACK` [#15258](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15258) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - (dup): release-6.5.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue of heartbeat storms by reducing the number of store heartbeat retries [#15184](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15184) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that Online Unsafe Recovery does not abort on timeout [#15346](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15346) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - (dup): release-6.5.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that encryption might cause data corruption during partial write [#15080](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15080) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)

>     - Fix the issue that TiKV panics due to corrupted metadata [#13311](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13311) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the TiKV panic issue caused by incorrect metadata of Region [#13311](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13311) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
```

    - Fix the issue that requests of the TiDB Lightning checksum coprocessor time out when there is online workload [#15565](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15565) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

>     - Fix the issue that moving a peer might cause the performance of the follower read to deteriorate [#15468](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15468) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that moving a peer might cause the performance of the Follower Read to deteriorate [#15468](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15468) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

    - Fix the issue that DDL might not guarantee atomicity after enabling resource control [#45050](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45050) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - (dup): release-7.3.0.md > Bug fixes> PD - Fix the issue that unhealthy peers cannot be removed when rule checker selects peers [#6559](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6559) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - (dup): release-7.3.0.md > Bug fixes> PD - Fix the issue that when etcd is already started but the client has not yet connected to it, calling the client might cause PD to panic [#6860](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6860) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> PD - Fix the issue that RU consumption less than 0 causes PD to crash [#6973](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6973) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)
    - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> PD - Fix the issue that the client-go regularly updating `min-resolved-ts` might cause PD OOM when the cluster is large [#46664](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46664) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

+ TiFlash <!--tw@hfxsd--1 条-->

>     - Fix the issue that the memory usage reported by MemoryTracker is not accurate when read pool is enabled [#8128](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8128) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the memory usage reported by MemoryTracker is inaccurate [#8128](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8128) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
```

        - (dup): release-6.5.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the potential error in fine-grained backup phase in RawKV mode [#37085](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37085) @[pingyu](https://github.com/pingyu)
        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the issue that recovering meta-kv using PITR might cause errors [#46578](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46578) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the errors in BR integration test cases [#45561](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46561) @[purelind](https://github.com/purelind)
        - (dup): release-6.5.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the issue of restore failures by increasing the default values of the global parameters `TableColumnCountLimit` and `IndexLimit` used by BR to their maximum values [#45793](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45793) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

>         - Fix the issue that the CLI client scan gets stuck after data restoration [#45476](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45476) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the br CLI client gets stuck when scanning restored data [#45476](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45476) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
```

        - Fix the issue that PITR might skip restoring the `CREATE INDEX` DDL statement [#47482](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47482) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Fix the issue that running PITR multiple times within 1 minute might cause data loss [#15483](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15483) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

    + TiCDC <!--tw@hfxsd--4 条-->

        - Fix the issue that a replication task in an abnormal state blocks upstream GC [#9543](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9543) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

>         - Fix the issue that replicating data to an object store might cause data inconsistency [#9592](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9592) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that replicating data to an object storage might cause data inconsistency [#9592](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9592) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
```
